SPEAKER_00: In 1912, fragments from a gravel pit in Sussex seemed to give British science the fossil it wanted, a human-like skull, an ape-like jaw, a famous name, Piltdown Man.
SPEAKER_00: The evidence was thin, but the story was powerful.
SPEAKER_00: It fit a brain-first theory and gave Britain its own ancient ancestor.
SPEAKER_00: Some anatomists doubted the skull and jaw belonged together, but access was limited, prestige was heavy, and the specimen kept circulating as authority.
SPEAKER_00: The fraud was not perfect.
SPEAKER_00: It was welcome.
SPEAKER_00: By 1953, Tess exposed the trick.
SPEAKER_00: The skull was a recent human bone.
SPEAKER_00: The jaw was from an orangutan.
SPEAKER_00: The teeth had been filed.
SPEAKER_00: The bones had been stained.
SPEAKER_00: The hoax survived because it let the field feel correct.
SPEAKER_00: The mystery fades.
SPEAKER_00: The receipts remain.